PaperNamed/jpr_r1/letter.md, before:

Dear Editors of the Journal of Peace Research,

thank you for the opportunity to revise and resubmit my manuscript "Two Sword Lengths Apart: Credible Commitment Problems and Physical Violence in Multi-party Elected National Legislatures
".

I have done our best to incorporate the reviewers' very helpful suggestions, as well as your own while keeping the manuscript within the Journal's word limit. (The revised text's word count is [GET].)

I have highlighted key changes in the text with track changes and notes. My detailed responses to the suggestions are below.

Please do not hesitate to contact us if you require more information or have other suggestions.

P.S. The footnote numbering will automatically return to normal when we remove the track changes. This is simply an artifact of the LaTeX track changes package we used.

-------------------

# Editor

> Avoid the use of the term ‘recently’ in the abstract.

> Explain ‘disproportionate electoral outcomes’ in the abstract and earlier in the introduction.

> P. 1: ‘Actual, sword fights…’ -> ‘Actual sword fights…’

> P. 2 and elsewhere: ‘paper’ -> ‘article’.

> P. 4: ‘a large increases’ -> ‘a large increase’

> P 5 and 7: please name hypotheses ‘H1’ and ‘H2’.

> P. 6: ‘(Saideman, Lanoue and Stanton, 2002, 108)’ -> ‘(Saideman, Lanoue & Stanton, 2002: 108)’, here and throughout the ms.

> P. 7: ‘(see Lijphart, 2007)’ -> ‘(Lijphart, 2007)’, here and throughout the ms.  

> P. 12: footnote 1 close to the bottom: which note does this refer to?

> P. 13: please name all six countries making up 60% of events.

> P. 18: Models A4..A8 are, in my view superfluous and can be moved to the online appendix and mentioned only briefly in a footnote.

> P. 18: please consider adding past armed conflict as a control.

    - I show results from internal armed conflicts in the regression tables. The data is from the UCDP/PRIO Armed Conflict Dataset. [WRITE UP]

> Since one of the key contributions is the dataset, please do provide additional information on the data collection procedure (e.g. search algorithm?) and the coding (e.g. how did you separate between multiple events involving the same actors). Additional information should be included in the article, though more detailed descriptions may be relegated to the supplementary (online) file.


# Reviewer 2

> 4. I appreciate the empirical check for possible bias by limiting the sample to after 1990. However, I think more is needed to convince the reader that your method of data collection (assembling based on the Google News Archive) is picking up the universe of cases (or is in fact the best option available). Since some of the value of this project is in the creation of the original data set on legislative violence, it would be useful to describe this data collection in more detail. The fact that the author removes 22% of the sample by excluding the two most recent years (2010-2011) suggests that there is a bias for later years.

    - First, I discovered that a footnote detailing the search keywords that I used did not show up in the original submitted version. I have re-added this [PAGE NUMBER].

    - Second, I and two research assistants have conducted additional searches with Google and Youtube (a surprisingly good source of videos of brawls) since the original data collection. This allows me to include observations through 2012 and improved our confidence that we have found close to the universe of incidents within our sampling frame.

    - Third, I agree that there is a bias in the later years. This is a problem with virtually all digitally available data. However, perhaps the only other improvement on gathering this data would be to examine every country's legislatures printed record. This would be a considerable undertaking often involving accessing physical archives in well over 100 countries and many languages. This would be unfeasible without considerable funding.

    - Fourth, legislative records may in some regards be an inferior source. Brawls tend to be heavily reported on by the media. However, they are in many ways outside of normal legislative business and so many not actually be officially recorded.



> 5. I think that the empirics are competent done and I appreciate the extent of the robustness checks. My concern is that there is not enough variation in the dependent variable (especially by limiting the sample to smaller time periods), which is causing some of the “very large, highly unstable, and largely nonsenical coefficient estimates” (page 17). What can the author do to assuage these fears?

    - In addition to the rare events logistic regression method that corrects bias created using a small number of 1's relative to 0's, the main reason to be confident that the unstable coefficient estimates are not predominantly the result of the dependent variable is that they are likely the result of issues in specific independent variables. It important to note that the "very large, highly unstable, and largely nonsenical coefficient estimates" were only estimated for a small number of variables: political system type, components of the self-expression variable. I do not anticipate that these variables are not theoretically strongly related to violence. In addition, the instability in the coefficient estimates has more to do with a lack of variation/large missingness on these variables rather than the violence dependent variable. The fact that variables that have better coverage/more variation produce consistently stable coefficients bulsters the case that the issue is with a small set of independent, rather than the dependent variable

    + Also, I and other research assistants have strived to additionally verify and update the data set. We have conducted further keyword searches on Google and Youtube (an excellent source of video evidence of legislative brawls). We did this for both the original submission's time period as well as to the present. As such, we are confident that we have found close to all of the incidents in the sampling period.

> 6. One last nit-picky comment. I like the figures, but the use of jittered dots (rather than confidence intervals or some other alternative) needlessly increases the file size and caused my printer to choke!

    - The plot now uses point rangers/ribbons to show the expected probabilities. This dramatically decreases the file size and increases legibility.


# Reviewer 3

> 8. Finally, with so many zero cases and an event count, why not use a zero inflated negative binomial model?

    - I examined the possibility of using zero inflated negative binomial regression. This was not in practice possible (using zeroinfl from the R pscl package). There are few country-years with more than 1 brawl (32). Most of these had two brawls, 6 had 3 brawls. As zero inflated negative binomial regression uses a mixture model, there are likely not enough variation in the 'count' part of the model to estimate it. [THINK ABOUT]

Commit message:

armed cite added to table

PaperNamed/jpr_r1/letter.md, after:

Dear Editors of the Journal of Peace Research,

thank you for the opportunity to revise and resubmit my manuscript "Two Sword Lengths Apart: Credible Commitment Problems and Physical Violence in Multi-party Elected National Legislatures
".

I have done our best to incorporate the reviewers' very helpful suggestions, as well as your own while keeping the manuscript within the Journal's word limit. (The revised text's word count is [GET].)

I have highlighted key changes in the text with track changes and notes. My detailed responses to the suggestions are below.

Please do not hesitate to contact us if you require more information or have other suggestions.

P.S. The footnote numbering will automatically return to normal when we remove the track changes. This is simply an artifact of the LaTeX track changes package we used.

-------------------

# Editor

> Avoid the use of the term ‘recently’ in the abstract.

    - Removed.

> Explain ‘disproportionate electoral outcomes’ in the abstract and earlier in the introduction.

> P. 1: ‘Actual, sword fights…’ -> ‘Actual sword fights…’

    - Corrected.

> P. 2 and elsewhere: ‘paper’ -> ‘article’.

    - Replace all 'paper' with 'article'.

> P. 4: ‘a large increases’ -> ‘a large increase’

    - Corrected.

> P 5 and 7: please name hypotheses ‘H1’ and ‘H2’.

> P. 6: ‘(Saideman, Lanoue and Stanton, 2002, 108)’ -> ‘(Saideman, Lanoue & Stanton, 2002: 108)’, here and throughout the ms.

> P. 7: ‘(see Lijphart, 2007)’ -> ‘(Lijphart, 2007)’, here and throughout the ms.  

    - Removed 'see' from all in-text citations.

> P. 12: footnote 1 close to the bottom: which note does this refer to?

> P. 13: please name all six countries making up 60% of events.

> P. 18: Models A4..A8 are, in my view superfluous and can be moved to the online appendix and mentioned only briefly in a footnote.

> P. 18: please consider adding past armed conflict as a control.

    - I show results from internal armed conflicts in the regression tables. The data is from the UCDP/PRIO Armed Conflict Dataset. [WRITE UP]

> Since one of the key contributions is the dataset, please do provide additional information on the data collection procedure (e.g. search algorithm?) and the coding (e.g. how did you separate between multiple events involving the same actors). Additional information should be included in the article, though more detailed descriptions may be relegated to the supplementary (online) file.

    - I realise that unfortunately the footnote detailing the original data gathering process was accidentally not included in the original version. I have made sure that this is now in the paper. In addition, I and two new research assistants have veryified and updated the data set using additional Google and Youtube (a surprisingly good source of information on legislative brawls) keyword searches. I have added a description of this process to the paper [TO-DO].

    - Regarding multiple events involving the same actors: in our search, including watching video of many of the brawls, they are continuous events. Legislators brawl once on a given day the size and duration of the brawls varies (we have catologued this for future research), but as our research found, they are one event per day. This is how they are coded in the data set. [THINK ABOUT] 

# Reviewer 2

> 4. I appreciate the empirical check for possible bias by limiting the sample to after 1990. However, I think more is needed to convince the reader that your method of data collection (assembling based on the Google News Archive) is picking up the universe of cases (or is in fact the best option available). Since some of the value of this project is in the creation of the original data set on legislative violence, it would be useful to describe this data collection in more detail. The fact that the author removes 22% of the sample by excluding the two most recent years (2010-2011) suggests that there is a bias for later years.

    - First, I discovered that a footnote detailing the search keywords that I used did not show up in the original submitted version. I have re-added this [PAGE NUMBER].

    - Second, I and two research assistants have conducted additional searches with Google and Youtube (a surprisingly good source of videos of brawls) since the original data collection. This allows me to include observations through 2012 and improved our confidence that we have found close to the universe of incidents within our sampling frame.

    - Third, I agree that there is a bias in the later years. This is a problem with virtually all digitally available data. However, perhaps the only other improvement on gathering this data would be to examine every country's legislatures printed record. This would be a considerable undertaking often involving accessing physical archives in well over 100 countries and many languages. This would be unfeasible without considerable funding.

    - Fourth, legislative records may in some regards be an inferior source. Brawls tend to be heavily reported on by the media. However, they are in many ways outside of normal legislative business and so many not actually be officially recorded.



> 5. I think that the empirics are competent done and I appreciate the extent of the robustness checks. My concern is that there is not enough variation in the dependent variable (especially by limiting the sample to smaller time periods), which is causing some of the “very large, highly unstable, and largely nonsenical coefficient estimates” (page 17). What can the author do to assuage these fears?

    - In addition to the rare events logistic regression method that corrects bias created using a small number of 1's relative to 0's, the main reason to be confident that the unstable coefficient estimates are not predominantly the result of the dependent variable is that they are likely the result of issues in specific independent variables. It important to note that the "very large, highly unstable, and largely nonsenical coefficient estimates" were only estimated for a small number of variables: political system type, components of the self-expression variable. I do not anticipate that these variables are not theoretically strongly related to violence. In addition, the instability in the coefficient estimates has more to do with a lack of variation/large missingness on these variables rather than the violence dependent variable. The fact that variables that have better coverage/more variation produce consistently stable coefficients bulsters the case that the issue is with a small set of independent, rather than the dependent variable

    + Also, I and other research assistants have strived to additionally verify and update the data set. We have conducted further keyword searches on Google and Youtube (an excellent source of video evidence of legislative brawls). We did this for both the original submission's time period as well as to the present. As such, we are confident that we have found close to all of the incidents in the sampling period.

> 6. One last nit-picky comment. I like the figures, but the use of jittered dots (rather than confidence intervals or some other alternative) needlessly increases the file size and caused my printer to choke!

    - The plot now uses point rangers/ribbons to show the expected probabilities. This dramatically decreases the file size and increases legibility.


# Reviewer 3

> 8. Finally, with so many zero cases and an event count, why not use a zero inflated negative binomial model?

    - I examined the possibility of using zero inflated negative binomial regression. This was not in practice possible (using zeroinfl from the R pscl package). There are few country-years with more than 1 brawl (32). Most of these had two brawls, 6 had 3 brawls. As zero inflated negative binomial regression uses a mixture model, there are likely not enough variation in the 'count' part of the model to estimate it. [THINK ABOUT]
